# The Antigoni Voyages
Background and fiction: the commercial voyages of the airship Antigoni

## A Solar System colonized by magic

Given sufficient generation of physical effect, magic can power spaceflight. So it is here.

Magic is generally available via _apertures_ into other universes. When an aperture is available, the inter-universal difference in magical potential is key to determining how much energy can be drawn from it.

Some universes are effectively _translating_ or _rotating_ with respect to the primary universe of the setting. Whether these universes are actually "moving" with respect to the primary universe is an open, and perhaps not very meaningful, question - in what sense can universes move with respect to one another? The fact remains that this physical motion is somehow transmissible through apertures; and, for spaceflight, the aperture type called a "thrust vector" is represented by a dipole whose poles are a "source" and "sink". Moving the two poles further apart causes the force (originating at the source, and terminating at the sink) to increase in magnitude. This magnitude does not have a known upper bound; however, the further apart the poles become, the more unstable the dipole becomes. The best engineering answer to the problem is to encase the dipole in a tube that stabilizes the entire assemblage.

The resultant _thrust spar_ makes space flight possible. 

 * It does not require a primary energy source, since the energy is generated by the inter-universal aperture.
 
 * It does not require reaction mass, such as is needed by a rocket. In other words, _it needs only to lift payload._ Sacrificial mass - the bane of rocketry - is no longer important.
 
In other words, a spar that generates thrust greater than the gravity well of the planet one wishes to depart is theoretically sufficient to enable space flight. If the thrust is notably greater than the gravitational attraction one wishes to escape, the theoretical becomes practical.

This solar system, therefore, was promptly and gleefully explored after the engineering of magic became sufficiently understood.

### The Planets

In order from the sun outwards, these are the planetary bodies reached by the people who had magic to assist their explorations:

* **Sargual,** a small airless tidelocked rock, very hot on the dayside, very cold on the darkside. Some mining domes — rare metals supported the effort of establishing twilight band settlements.

* **Issfr,** another tidelocked world, but bigger and with a substantial (but not breathable) atmosphere. Civilization is still mostly limited to the twilight zone. Issfr's orbit is only slightly outside that of Sargual.

* **The Hot Belt,** innermost of the System's two asteroid belts.

* **Gauz,** a watery hot planet whose moon Kuros is so large that the planet is sometimes called "Gauz-Kuros".

* **Torestre,** the Earthlike planet on which humankind evolved. Two moons, Coin and Bead.

* **Hexiaz,** a world similar to Torestre in size, with an extremely deep atmosphere and a native ecology. Hexiaz is co-orbital with:

* **The Cold Belt,** an asteroid belt much larger and colder than the insystem Hot Belt. Includes a lot of ice-rich bodies, and is in fact the primary source of water and other light fluids for outer-system operations. Hexiaz is thought to have been heavily bombarded by elements of the Cold Belt. Some planetologists argue that Hexiaz is merely the largest remaining fragment of the initial planetary breakup that created the Cold Belt.

  * **Yst,** a small airless world, with "Airspaces", magically constrained bubbles of air, clinging to its black surface. Some of them are hundreds of miles across. Ystian Airspaces are the largest persistent magical structures known.

* **Dompar**, a gas giant.

* **Reng,** a very large gas giant with spectacular rings and its own moonlet belt.</li>

* **Erriamm,** an ice giant, very far out.
